[ Music ]
>> Welcome back to
Southwest Yard and Garden.
We're here with Judy
Nickel again,
one of the Albuquerque master
gardeners and she's going
to show us some weedy plants
which are plants you might plant
but you find that they
tend to be very invasive
and some true weeds which you
really shouldn't be planting.
>> Right. Well you don't need
to plant weeds, they come up.
>> They will find their way.
>> That's right.
Some weedy plants.
This cute little vine.
>> From a seed.
>> Planted by the birds.
>> Birds bring these things
in; this is Virginia Creeper
and this will creep all
over your whole place.
Vinca Major is another one
that a lot of people plant
and it's a cute little
thing but boy that really--
you'll spend 30 years
getting rid of it.
>> Nice evergreen leaves,
blue flowers, but it is--
>> If you can get it to bloom.
>> It is a spreader.
>> And another spreader is
hypericum St. John's Wart;
it has yellow flowers,
doesn't even bloom to well,
and it spreads by
roots underground
and you get a whole new
plant all over the place.
And then we have
some weed trees.
>> Oh yes.
>> Ailanthus tree.
>> A lot of people
do plant this.
>> Yeah you don't need to.
>> And your neighbor
regrets it when you do.
>> You neighbor will sue you.
This is one leaf.
All of these little
leaflets make up one leaf.
And huge things.
Now the Elms.
>> Grow from seed.
>> They come up-- they come up
from seed; they very seldom come
up from root but they will
come up from seed and you need
to pull those when
they're little
because their roots will go
to China for a while there.
One of the worst weeds
we have and it's one
of the worst weeds
worldwide I think is Nutsedge.
It looks like a grass
but it's truly a sedge.
It's related to what
the Egyptians made paper
out of papyrus.
Yes.
And here you see one that's got
a little, see the little nut.
You don't often see the little--
the little nut at the
base of these things
and that makes new babies.
Bindweed.
>> Oh one of our favorites.
>> Oh yes.
And in Arizona it's
outlawed isn't it?
They make little white flowers.
>> Good news for those who have
this who don't want to have it;
they have now received
authorization
to release a beetle
which feeds on this.
It won't kill it outright
but it's going to weaken it
so it's not going to
be such a pest anymore.
>> Here's one.
These tend to come up
mostly in the lawn.
>> You know when people call
and ask us questions unless
they know what it is they call
it milkweed.
>> It's called milk--
they call it that,
it's not a true milkweed.
>> It's not a milkweed.
>> But it makes that little
milky sap when you break it off.
And that can be irritating
to the skin too.
>> Yes. And this one will
irritate your skin too.
>> That'll irritate anything.
This is when it's little and
that's when they get bigger
and they can get well
this high and bigger.
>> Yes. And beautiful
blue flowers,
a lot of people like it.
>> They look like
a tomato flower.
>> Right, it's related
to tomatoes.
>> That's right and there's
what looks like a tomato.
>> This is the silverleaf
nightshade.
>> Right and it's poisonous.
>> It's poisonous, it's
got prickles along the stem
so when you go out to pull it
be sure you're wearing gloves.
>> If you're into
xeriscaping and stuff
like that it'll be
all over the place.
>> So you need to
really stay after it.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Well thank you Judy.
>> Thank you for asking.
[ Music ]